story 1. The Temporary Solar Augmentation Reactor Station. 
The TSARS is an extreme example of temporary solar augmentation. During construction projects or times when energy infrastructure will be less available, large projects may use the services of Temporary Solar Augmentation equipment. Often an array of solar panels in orbit of the star are able to relay energy using lasers to laser/solar reciever panels on the site of energy demand. Grand scale infrastructure construction or fleet manufacturing projects however, often want burst power far in excess of what is available from a reasonable and cheaply available array of orbiting solar stations, so large reactors can be employed. Reactors have a long history of struggling to supply burst power, however, as they are best run at a steady energy output or require very special fuels. A massive reactor station, however, is able to enclose a self-sustaining self-refueling fusion reactor that is able to provide burst power at the levels unavailable from any other plant, while remaining stable for long durations of idle, and at very short notice. 

A full power burst delivery invovles cycling all of the stored energy in the plant into the centrally located fusion reaction for a charge cycle, before energy is transferred into the delivery system and the reactor normalizes. During this time, the reactor cooling systems are at an absolute maximum and an expansion relief system connects to an exhaust vent which in emergencies may be used to dump reactor mass directly from the reactor into space in order to regain control of the reactor. As the reactor always operates in the vacuum of space, and as the station is operated by a large and competent crew, the likelyhood of obstruction of this exhaust system is virtually zero, although it is always a concern, and the station is crewed with and escorted by a large military compliment to ensure that at all times this area is clear of asteroids, traffic, or other debris. 

This energy production plant is crucial for the sort of rapid construction projects that make the galactic government capable of timely resource exploitation of planets, rapid settlement of planets (billions of colonists arriving at once), and the rapid construction of fleets and grand scale civilian orbital stations. It can also be critical for the transport of large mineral assemblages. It is able to move from location to location to be at the right place at the right time to offer a temporary augmentation of local energy resources using it's on-station fusion reactor, thus the name "Temporary Solar Augmentation Reactor Station". 
